Message Broker Configuration
============================

Since version 2, Opencast Matterhorn requires an Apache ActiveMQ message broker as message relay for the administrative
user interface. ActiveMQ can either be set up to run on its own machine or on one of the existing Matterhorn nodes
(usually the admin node).

### Required Version

 - ActiveMQ 5.10 or above should work.
 - ActiveMQ 5.6 will not work.
 - Versions in between are untested.


### Installation

 - If you use the Matterhorn RPM repository, simply install the `activemq-dist` package.
 - If you are running RHEL, CentOS or Fedora you can use the [ActiveMQ-dist Copr RPM repository
   ](https://copr.fedoraproject.org/coprs/lkiesow/apache-activemq-dist/)
 - You can download binary distributions from the [Apache ActiveMQ website](http://activemq.apache.org/download.html)


### Configuration

What you basically need to do:

 - Set-up required message queues for Matterhorn
 - Point all your Matterhorn nodes to your message broker.

The first task is easy. Matterhorn comes with a ActiveMQ configuration file, located at
`docs/scripts/activemq/activemq.xml` (RPM repo: `/usr/share/matterhorn/docs/scripts/activemq/activemq.xml`). This file
will give you a basic configuration with all queues set-up and accepting connections from all hosts over TCP port
61616.`Simply replace the default ActiveMQ configuration, usually located at `/etc/activemq/activemq.xml`, with this
file.

Then configure the ActiveMQ connectvion in the `config.properties`. The default configuration points to a local
installation of ActiveMQ, but that can be changed with:

    activemq.broker.url = failover://tcp://example.opencast.org:61616


### Security

ActiveMQ can secure its message queues with user name and password access. This section will go through the steps of
setting up a configured username and password. On the [ActiveMQ security site](http://activemq.apache.org/security.html)
there are more details about using alternative authentication and authorization providers.

#### Create ActiveMQ Admin User

First, you need to create a new user that will have access to the queues. This is configured in the `user.properties`
configuration file in the configuration directory for ActiveMQ. It is a list of the format `username = password` so, for
example, we could create a new admin user with the following file contents:

    admin=password

#### Create ActiveMQ Admin Group

The next step is to provide a group that will have our user in it and will secure access to the message queues. This is
configured in the file `groups.properties` in the configuration directory for ActiveMQ. It is a list of the format
`group = user1,user2,â€¦`. For example:

    groups=user1,user2,user3

To set-up our new user to be a part of the admins group:

    admins=admin

#### Configure Users and Groups Configuration Files

Next, we need to make sure that ActiveMQ is using our `user.properties` and `group.properties` files to authenticate and
authorize users. The `login.conf` file should be in the ActivemQ configuration directory and contain:

    activemq {
        org.apache.activemq.jaas.PropertiesLoginModule required
        org.apache.activemq.jaas.properties.user="users.properties"
        org.apache.activemq.jaas.properties.group="groups.properties";
    };

#### Configure Message Broker Security

The final step to secure the ActiveMQ queues is to limit them with a group. This can be done by editing the
`activemq.xml` configuration file in the ActiveMQ configuration directory. Inside this configuration file, we need to
add some XML in between the tags:

    <broker></broker>

We will add the following plugin configuration:

    <plugins>
        <jaasAuthenticationPlugin configuration="activemq" />
        <authorizationPlugin>
            <map>
                <authorizationMap>
                    <authorizationEntries>
                        <authorizationEntry queue=">" read="admins" write="admins" admin="admins" />
                        <authorizationEntry topic=">" read="admins" write="admins" admin="admins" />
                        <authorizationEntry topic="ActiveMQ.Advisory.>" read="admins" write="admins" admin="admins"/>
                    </authorizationEntries>
                </authorizationMap>
            </map>
        </authorizationPlugin>
    </plugins>

The `jaasAuthenticationPlugin` configures the broker to use our `login.conf` file to do the authentication.

    <jaasAuthenticationPlugin configuration="activemq" />

 The property:

    configuration=activemq

needs to match the name given for surrounding object in `login.conf` i.e. activemq{};

The `authorizationEntry` gives read, write and admin access to only those members in the group admins for queues and topics.

##### Configure Matterhorn to Connect with Username and Password to Message Broker

Now that we have secured the queues, Opencast will complain that it is unable to connect, using the current username and
password. The username and password used above need to be added to the `config.properties` file of Opencast.  There are
two properties to set:

    activemq.broker.username=admin
    activemq.broker.password=password

## Firewall

Do not forget that ActiveMQ uses the TCP port 61616 (default configuration) for communication.  You probably want to
allow communication over this port in your firewall on a distributed setup, or to explicitly forbid public access on an
all-in-one installation.
